The Dorian Principle
A biblical response to the commercialization of Christianity by Conley Owens
Conclusion
A final word about the Gospel
The prophet Isaiah describes salvation as water that is offered without money and without
price
Isaiah 551
In the Gospels, Jesus explains he is the source of that living water, John 737
On the final pages of Scripture, John records the repeated assertion that the Lord offers
this water freely, Revelation 216, 2217
As we consider the relationship between money and ministry, there is nothing less at stake
than the proper advancement of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
If the Dorian Principle correctly summarizes the ministry fundraising ethic of the New Testament,
the implications are far reaching
And regular church work and activity, this truth may round out some rough edges, but in other
areas, it demands radical transformation
Equipped with this one maxim, we may curb the commercialization of Christianity and usher
in a new era of uncompromised ministry
In the context of Gospel proclamation, accepting support as anything other than an active
co-labor, compromises the sincerity of ministry
The modern church has unintentionally gone astray, blindly following the model of the world
What blessings await if we will reform our practices, calling ministers and ministries to repentance?
Its heads give judgment for a bribe, its priests teach for a price, its prophets practice
divination for money, yet they lean on the Lord and say, "It's not the Lord in the midst
of us, no disaster shall come upon us,"
Micah 311
End of conclusion
[Music]